# Historical-Volatility

Abstract: Volatility is a statistical measure of the dispersion of returns for a given security or market index. Volatility can either be measured by using the standard deviation or variance between returns from that same security or market index. Commonly, the higher the volatility, the riskier the security. In other words, volatility refers to the amount of uncertainty or risk about the size of changes in a security's value. A higher volatility means that a security's value can potentially be spread out over a larger range of values. This means that the price of the security can change dramatically over a short time period in either direction. A lower volatility means that a security's value does not fluctuate dramatically, but changes in value at a steady pace over a period.

Approach: • Using Quantmod package and get symbols function to obtain various parameters of a stock price such as opening, closing, average price and trading volume for the past decade. • Importing the data in XTS format into R and converting the data into CSV format. • Cleaning the imported data. • Storing the data in a SQL-lite database. • Writing a function to calculate the statistical volatility each year for the past decade.

Conclusion: We have collected, cleaned, stored and analyzed stock data. Our project consist of four main functions, each of which is designed to collect, store clean and analyze the data. With these four functions we can find the Statistical Volatility for any stock that trades under NASDAQ index. As of 2017 there are more than 3000 companies under NASDAQ. Our project will be useful in determining the risks for a given stock over the last decade. If the volatility of the stock has been reducing drastically over the years or has been constant over the years, we can assume that the company is stable and doing well and the risks on that particular company’ stock is minimum. From the above example we can see that google has a constant volatility in the range of 0.15 – 0.29 except for the year 2008. We can also see the reducing trend in the volatility over the years making google a stable and risk minimum investment.
